\section{Prototype and Interaction Techniques}

Study 1 used a Unity-based mixed-reality prototype to compare large-scale phone-mediated object manipulation with fine-grained phone touch input under two hand-location postures. The prototype supported a 2 x 2 within-subject design with gesture scale as one factor, Macro versus Micro, and hand location as the second factor, Near Head versus Side Of Body. Each participant completed the same three manipulation tasks in every condition: object placement, object rotation, and object scaling. The software presented target objects, collected phone and HoloLens input, controlled the virtual proxy hand and tools, and logged trial-level performance measures.

\subsection{AR Prototype Overview}

The prototype was implemented in Unity 2022.3.62f1. The HoloLens application used MRTK 2.8.3, Unity OpenXR 1.15.1, Microsoft Mixed Reality OpenXR 1.11.2, and Microsoft Mixed Reality OpenXR marker and anchor components for QR-based workspace alignment. The implementation and study scripts identify the head-mounted display as a Microsoft HoloLens, but they do not specify the exact generation: Microsoft HoloLens [exact generation to be reported]. The companion device is implemented as a smartphone running the phone application, but the repository does not specify the exact model: [smartphone model to be reported].

The smartphone was used as both a tracked handheld device and an input surface. A companion phone application streamed data to the HoloLens over UDP, with the HoloLens receiver listening on port 5555. Each incoming packet could include the phone pose, optional QR marker pose, QR-relative phone pose deltas, and touch/input fields. The streamed interaction fields included a hold signal, a tap-toggle state, double-tap mode-toggle event ids, triple-tap submit event ids, two-dimensional drag axes, and a drag-active flag. The HoloLens application used these fields differently in the Macro and Micro techniques.

Before each condition block, participants restarted or opened the phone application, scanned the QR marker with the phone, and waited until the HoloLens announced that the phone QR had been detected. This QR observation linked the phone coordinate frame to the HoloLens workspace. The current scene requires QR-relative phone translation for the Macro pose driver, which makes the handheld phone motion interpretable in the mixed-reality workspace rather than relying only on raw device-local motion. After the QR step, the condition-introduction flow presented the current technique and posture, displayed the appropriate posture example, waited for the participant to confirm readiness with a triple tap, checked the phone connection and stillness state, and rebaselined the phone-to-proxy mapping for the upcoming block.

The main manipulation objects were Unity GameObjects tagged as grabbable tools. Placement, rotation, and scaling were implemented as separate task managers. Each task manager activated the relevant tool and target display, handled resets between trials, accepted participant submission, and reported trial results to the logging system. The participant completed each trial by submitting when they judged the current object state to match the target as closely as possible. In the current scene, submission is performed with a phone triple tap; voice submission support exists in code but is disabled for the study scene. Trials also have a 300-second timeout.

\subsection{Macro Technique}

The Macro technique mapped larger physical movement of the phone and right hand to a virtual proxy hand in the HoloLens workspace. In Macro mode, the input gate enabled the phone pose driver and disabled the Micro analog controllers. The proxy-hand root followed the streamed phone pose and QR-relative translation with smoothing. The scene uses a position gain of 1.0 in the base pose driver, a condition-level motion gain of 1.5 for both Near and Side mappings, position and rotation interpolation gains of 20, and a maximum rotation speed of 360 deg/s. The driver also includes short-horizon prediction and suppression of unintended translation during high angular motion, which reduces jitter when the phone rotates quickly. A 0.30 m forward position offset places the proxy hand in the workspace in front of the user.

In Macro mode, the phone hold signal controls grabbing. When the participant holds the phone touch input while the proxy hand is near a grabbable object, the proxy grabber selects the nearest valid tool within a 0.08 m grab radius. The tool attaches to the proxy hand with a 0.05 m attach distance threshold. Releasing the hold signal releases the object. For placement, the task manager locks object rotation while the object is being moved, so physical Macro movement primarily changes object position. For rotation, the object follows the proxy-hand anchor rotation while grabbed. For scaling, the participant holds the object and moves the proxy hand along a camera-based diagonal scaling axis; the scaling task converts this wrist/proxy-hand displacement into an exponential scale factor using a movement-to-scale gain of 4.0, a small dead zone, and smoothing.

The Side Of Body Macro condition uses an additional axis remapping so that the same side-body posture can still manipulate the frontal workspace. In the implementation, phone left/right motion remains proxy-hand left/right motion. Phone vertical motion and phone forward/back motion are swapped so that the side-held phone can move the proxy hand in workspace-relevant vertical and depth directions. This remap is applied only for the side posture. Thus, the Macro Near Head and Macro Side Of Body conditions share the same proxy-hand mechanism, but they do not use identical raw phone-to-workspace translation mappings.

\subsection{Micro Technique}

The Micro technique kept the larger arm and phone pose comparatively stable and used phone touch input for fine object adjustment. In Micro mode, the input gate disabled the Macro pose-follow driver and enabled task-specific analog controllers for placement, rotation, or scaling. The phone still provided a tracked pose and a visible proxy-hand reference, but the primary manipulation signal was the phone's two-dimensional drag axis.

The Micro controllers treat the phone drag axis as an analog input with a dead zone of 0.08. They apply adaptive gain so that small swipes support fine corrections and larger swipes move faster. The placement and rotation controllers use an adaptive gain range from 0.35 to 2.0 with a gamma of 1.4 and gain smoothing. The scaling controller uses the same adaptive shape but caps the scaling gain at 1.6. The phone double-tap mode toggle changes the active Micro control submode, and the triple tap submits the trial.

In Micro placement, the participant taps once to grab or release the selected object and drags on the phone to move it. The horizontal drag axis moves the proxy hand and held object left/right in the camera frame. The vertical drag axis moves in either the camera up/down direction or the camera forward/back direction, depending on the active plane mode. The placement controller starts in an XY plane mode and switches between XY and XZ with the phone double tap. The movement speed is 0.30 m/s before adaptive gain is applied.

In Micro rotation, the participant can rotate the active tool without maintaining a physical hold. Horizontal phone drag controls yaw around the camera-up axis. Vertical drag controls roll by default, and the double-tap mode toggle switches the vertical axis between roll and pitch. The yaw, roll, and pitch rates are each 120 deg/s before adaptive gain. This gives the participant continuous analog control while preserving a small set of phone gestures.

In Micro scaling, vertical phone drag controls the active tool's scale factor. The scaling controller applies the drag value exponentially over time, so sustained drag produces continuous scale change rather than discrete scale steps. The task clamps the effective scale factor to the study's allowed range, with the current scene using a minimum factor of 0.6 and a maximum factor of 1.8 for participant-controlled scale changes. Micro scaling can also be performed without maintaining a Macro-style hold, which keeps the Micro task focused on touch-based fine adjustment.

\subsection{Hand-Location Conditions}

The hand-location factor changed where the participant held the phone and right hand during each block. In the Near Head condition, the participant held the phone near the head and frontal workspace according to the displayed posture example. In the Side Of Body condition, the participant held the phone beside the right side of the torso according to the side-posture example. The application presented these instructions before each condition, and the experimenter verified posture using the condition-entry flow.

The two posture conditions used the same task sequence and logging pipeline. The main implementation difference was how the phone/proxy mapping was initialized and, for Macro Side Of Body, how the side-body phone motion was remapped to the frontal workspace axes. In Micro conditions, the same touch-axis controllers were used in both postures; the posture primarily changed the physical location of the phone and hand while the fine manipulation signal remained the phone drag axis.

\subsection{Proxy Hand Representation}

The virtual proxy hand was represented by a rigged right-hand model in the HoloLens scene. The proxy-hand root is driven at the Remote Wrist transform, and the visible right-hand mesh follows this root. The proxy hand functions as an interaction handle in the AR workspace. It should therefore be interpreted as the system's virtual control hand rather than a literal rendering of the participant's physical hand position. This distinction is especially important in the Side Of Body conditions, where the physical hand is held at the side while the proxy hand remains available in the frontal task workspace.

The proxy hand also provides visual affordances for object acquisition. When the proxy hand is near a grabbable object, the system can display candidate highlighting. During Macro grabbing, the visible proxy hand is hidden while an object is held, reducing occlusion of the manipulated tool. During Micro rotation and Micro scaling, the input gate can also force the proxy visuals off so the object and target ghost remain visually dominant.

\subsection{Targets, Feedback, and Completion}

The prototype used ghost targets and task-specific feedback rather than only textual instructions. For placement, each target slot was shown as a semi-transparent ghost object in the scene. The target ghost could increase opacity when the relevant tool was grabbed, helping participants compare the current object to the destination slot. For rotation, the rotation target ghost was displayed near the active tool, using a camera-relative offset so the comparison target remained easy to inspect. For scaling, the target ghost represented the desired scaled size and could also be brought near the active tool. The scaling task updated the target ghost's scale factor so participants could visually compare current size against target size.

The study tasks did not require an automatic dwell-based completion. Instead, the participant submitted each trial with a triple tap when they believed the object matched the target. The system then recorded the final error and trial outcome. Placement submission is guarded against clearly invalid submissions when the object is too far from the target, using a block threshold of 2.5 times the placement tolerance. Rotation and scaling submissions record the current angular or scale error at the moment of submission. If the participant does not submit within the timeout, the trial is marked as timed out.

The task managers monitor tolerances during the trial for performance analysis. Placement uses a distance tolerance computed from the initial object-target distance with a minimum of 0.10 m. Rotation uses an 18 deg angular tolerance. Scaling uses a scale-factor tolerance of 0.08, equivalent to 8 percentage points. These thresholds are used to compute measures such as time to first entering tolerance and error-recovery behavior, while the final submitted state determines the trial's logged error.

\subsection{Logged Measures}

The prototype writes one CSV row per completed study trial through the StudyLogger. Practice trials are not intended to be included in the main dataset. Each row includes participant and condition metadata, task type, technique, hand-location label, condition order, tool id, global and within-task trial indices, trial result, timeout status, success status, and completion time. The logger also records final translation error in centimeters, final rotation error in degrees, final scaling error in percent, time to first within tolerance, eligible breaks, error-recovery time, Micro input effort, Macro movement effort, raw phone movement path length, and Micro mode-switch count.

Micro effort is captured from the phone drag input as active-axis duration and axis integral. Macro effort is captured from movement of the proxy wrist or hand transform, while the phone receiver separately accumulates raw phone translation path length from incoming pose samples. This separation allows the analysis to distinguish movement of the virtual control hand from movement of the physical phone stream. The scene can also mirror logs to a laptop receiver and copy logs to a documents folder, but the primary data format for analysis is the CSV output generated by the StudyLogger.
